[Laughter]
i am horrified
i'm horrified by the stupidity of my
fellow man i'm horrified
that you know human beings rather than
playing super mario brothers want to
sit and passively watch someone else
play super mario brothers while they
make no effort
to entertain the audience or talk about
anything meaningful
and like you know it is what people
watch on
twitch you know the most scene channels
the most popular the most
the most common content it's horrifying
to me and like
even if i were bedridden ill even if i
were on
you know heavy psychiatric medications
and sedatives i cannot
imagine being stupid enough to enjoy
what the average member of the twitch
audience
appreciates as an art form around here
and one of the
one of the comments i used to get all
the time on younail because i would do
two hours on younow
and i would be on the whole time it
would be a two-hour performance
unlike this interview right but i might
be on the whole time i get a question
from the audience that's a great
question
now here's a 20-minute monologue in
response to your question
somebody asked me to criticize something
i launched into a critique where i'm
really
you know i am listening and responding
to the audience but it's it's really
this intense
if anything kind of over-the-top
communication it's this this high energy
performance
for two hours solid and you know what i
see on twitch
it's like you know the pied piper
leading a bunch of sleepwalkers you know
what i mean i just can't believe it
um what the broadcasters themselves are
doing
is mind-numbingly stupid and i'm
assuming it you know relates to the drug
culture i think there are a lot of
people that answer smoking marijuana or
using other drugs
who just want to have their their minds
numbed
so yeah um what could be done with live
streaming technology i regard as
tremendously positive
uh tremendously meaningful even just
you know like shout out to only fans
shout out to all those platforms
you know it is more meaningful for
some 18 year old guy to have a crush on
a girl
and then be able to actually message her
and have her talk to him and answers
that is more meaningful than just having
a a magazine
with this glittering image sort of you
know perfectly posed
photoshopped image of a beauty icon
you know yes you know even pornography
today
the social media model of pornography
the degree of interaction and so on
he will learn to regard that woman as a
human being
even if she's just sitting there talking
about how she grew up and went to school
and what she's doing and going food
shopping because that's a lot of this
content it's like beautiful women just
talking about their normal lives
at least he'll learn to regard her as a
normal person and not an icon not a
statue or something you know what i mean
there's something to that but now when
you turn to the political sphere
or you turn to the educational sphere
wow there's so much potential here
and let me say that potential cuts both
ways there was a university professor in
england
and people worshipped this guy as a
genius the minute he came on youtube
everyone knew he was a [ __ ] [ __ ]
i've met that guy in person and i was
like wow
the emperor has no clothes and that
happens every day
there's another guy who's a famous i
could drop names here nobody would know
these these are all people with phds
and appointments and famous news there's
another guy who was a professor of
chinese linguistics especially like the
language history of china
total nut case the moment he made a
youtube video
moment he comes on and starts doing live
stream or q a
wow he's exposed people who even things
like language fluency people who claim
to be fluent in a language and they come
on a live stream and you see they can
barely speak at all
sure like that's like the negative side
like taking these people from being
statues
and pulling them down to earth and
making them seem human all too human
right
but on the other hand like anyone you've
ever respected now
oh yeah like this guy sure here's uh
sorry this is a book written by a
professor in israel named yuri pines
right i've talked to this guy
right he wrote this book he's written
some academic articles
i have some respect i don't worship him
i have some respect i can send him an
email
i can talk to him you know you can yeah
again
like only fans intellectuals educators
like the nature of education itself
can be profoundly transformed for the
better
by twitch by twitch by younow by only
offense by any of these things
your relationship to someone like a
professor someone teaching you something
can be so much more meaningful the
questions you can ask and the answers
you can get and you know
it's so much better than what a lecture
used to be in the past or a vhs video
cassette
it is such a huge advancement for
humanity if you don't believe me
what do you think it was like being deaf
and communicating through sign language
only in the year 1950
what do you think it was like if the
only language you could understand
was cambodian in 1980
now all these people can come on the
internet and you know in a in a
for sign language it's a visual form
like whether it's youtube videos or
twitch
they can communicate through sign
language all over the world and
it was totally impossible before right
people with speaking a language like
cambodian
their tiny audience can come on and
really have an intellectually rewarding
life and learn about history and
politics or whatever they want
they can learn about rap music they can
learn about anything you know the
educational potential for this
it's so clear when you talk about a
little silo
you know a little sub tiny community
like that
but each and every one of us is part of
some kind of tiny community
right me and my girlfriend i think we're
the only vegans in this apartment
building you know
i mean you know whatever it is you know
you are part of a minority
that's just as special and just as
isolated as the cambodians
uh living in california you may not
realize it yet
but social media and live streaming and
even messaging platforms like
only fans and snapchat and instagram
people perceive them as the lowest of
the low
people because of the association with
pornography and video games and
shallowness
and really in a lot of ways i'm out here
advocating for them saying no
um no this is not the lowest of the low
precise of the things we worship as high
culture
in many ways those are the lowest low
paying fifty thousand dollars
so you can sit in silence in a
university lecture theater
and then at the end raise your hand
um that to me is the lowest of the low
and i think social media
poses a profound a profound challenge to
that and a big a big paradigm shift for
all sides
[Music]
and uh i wonder if you if it's a topic
you're interested in if you thought
about sort of this because it's very new
right
it's been around for a few years but
it's only now becoming this really big
thing and there's all these sort of
communities forming and there's this odd
dynamic where it's like you've got this
one guy or girl at the top of this sort
of
social hierarchy and they have all the
power and control and it can create some
very bizarre uh dynamics that are sort
of new i wonder if you've
thought about this if it's interesting
to you like sort of the world of
streaming and the uh
what what sort of new and odd things
that come up through streaming
and it's communities that come out of it
look for me
the irony is that this is a technology
that seems to be
lost from the distant past of 2016. like
from my perspective things were
better on younow in 2016 or 2017 than
they are today on twitch
in 2020. you know i i love what
younow used to be what live streaming
used to be
and it seems inevitable that
technologically something like that will
be created again
you know like one of these important
technologically
all the pornography sites already have
everything you need to really talk about
politics
you know they're just not being used for
politics you know again
only fans is an example of that like
technologically
only fans or the live chat you know
website stuff all of them have all the
technology you need
to have a really meaningful discussion
about politics or philosophy but
you know they're being used by strippers
and so on and so forth you know um
because
obviously there's there's more money
than that but you know for those of us
who aren't motivated by money
i think it's this fundamentally
wonderful thing instead of sitting down
in a coffee shop
and talking to two people i mean your
show is a great example of this the in
general the truth
crap broadcast a lot of your shows it's
you sitting down and talking to one
person or two people or six people
as if you're in a coffee shop but a
couple hundred people can also
join in and benefit from it and if you
want to you can spin it off as a
filmmaker and edit out the segment
no i think it's really a fundamentally
wonderful fundamentally really really
positive thing
and in that sense like for me as a
creator i see almost
nothing negative about it okay and now i
flip the coin and talk about what's on
the other side